# A Multi-Objective Genetic Algorithm to Test Data Generation
**Article:**
*Gustavo  H.L. Pinto, Silvia R. VErgilio*. A Multi-Objective Genetic Algorithm to Test Data Generation. 22nd IEEE International Conference on Tools with Artificial Intelligence (ICTAI),  vol. 1, pp. 129–134, 2010.

## Introduction
Search based algorithms such as Genetic Algorithms (GA) are used for Test Data Generation.
These algorithms require an objective function to guide the search.
Using a single objective function to guide the search is a limitation, since the there are multiple factors that can be considered to guide the generation task. Examples of such factors are: the ability to reveal certain kind of faults, induced execution time and memory consumption.

The paper presents a framework that uses a Non-dominated Sorting Genetic Algorithm (*NSGA-II*).
The *NSGA-II* algorithms is an algorithm that evaluates the solutions according to Pareto dominance concepts and allows for the comparison of multiple objectives.

## Test Data Generation by a Multi-objective Approach
The framework consist of three modules:

 1. *configModule:* receives the parameters provided by the tester.
 2. *brainModule:* implements NSGA-II and is responsible for the evolution process.
 3. *testingModule:* executes the test cases and reports information about the testing process back to the brainModule.

The representation of the population and the choice of the fitness function are very important to the evolution process and are presented below.

### Representation of the population
In this work, the individual represents a set of test data to be evolved.
Two possible representations can be used to represent the data in each individual:

 - *Procedural:* the input consists in a sequence of value to execute the program.
 - *Object Oriented:* the input consists of sequences of invocations to constructors and methods, including the correspondent parameters.

### Genetic operators
Genetic operators transform the population through successive generations and encourage diversity and the adaption characteristics obtained by previous operations.

 - *Procedural:* the operators are applied by considering the type of each provided input.
 - *Object Oriented:* the mutation operator changes, inserts or removes inputs, constructors and methods invocations. The crossover operator selects points that can be in the sequence of method invocations or in the part that contains the parameters.

### Fitness Evaluation
In this framework there are three fitness objective functions available:
 
 - *Coverage* 
 - *Execution time*
 - *Ability to reveal faults* (Using Proteum it is possible to measure the capability of the test data to kill the mutants generated by a mutation operator, we consider that this test data is capable to reveal the fault described by the corresponding operator).

### Evolution Process
The Evolution Process consists of the following steps:
1. Test data is generated and the fitness of each of the individuals is evaluated
2. Dominated and non-dominated individuals are identified
3. The criterion given by multiple objectives is applied and selected individuals are used in the evolution of test data.
4. The set of the best solutions are added to the new population and return by the algorithm.
5. The evolution continues(go to step 1) until a stop criterion is reached.
6. Individuals are analyzed and non-dominated solutions are added to the set of non-dominated solutions.

## Evaluation Studies
The described approach was evaluated in three case studies.
The solutions found by NSGA-II dominate all the solutions found by a random strategy (RS). 
It was observed that the NSGA-II cost is almost three times greater than the RS cost and thus suggests that the strategies can be used in a complementary way.
Furthermore, it was observed that the coverage of the criterion and ability to reveal faults seems to be dependent. Future work should look more into this.
A combination that makes use of a multi-objective approach more suitable is one that includes execution time since, improving coverage implies to reveal more faults.

## Conclusions
The paper presented a framework to perform multi-objective test data generation with two strategies: *procedural* and *object oriented*.
The results of three case studies show that the multi-objective algorithm gets better solutions and improvements for all the objectives.
The solutions of the NSGA-II algorithm always dominated the random strategy.
Future work can be done in the evaluation of other objectives, as well as other meta-heuristic algorithms.

